Add visualization topic guidance and template (#315)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/structure/topic-types/visualization/index.md

- **Introduction:** Include an introduction that explains what the visualization type can help the user do.
- **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.
- **Body:** The body may include task/how-to information as needed. The body must include the following sections:

  - **Supported data formats:** Provide guidance about which data formats are supported by the visualization type, with example use cases.
  - **[Section] options:** For each drop-down section of options in the edit panel, add a section in the topic with the name of the UI section, followed by the word "options." For example, if a drop-down section of options is called "Axis" in the UI, include a section in the topic called "Axis options". This doesn't include the sections linked from the **Other options** section.
  - **Other visualization options:** Include a section for links to the documentation for common UI options:

    - Panel options
    - Standard options
    - Thresholds
    - Legend
    - Data links
    - Field overrides
    - Value mappings

![Visualization structure](/media/docs/writers-toolkit/visualization-topic-example-ann-2.png)

> ### Widget topic structure

Reviewer: I wonder if the concept of a widget topic should be addressed in the H1, and then this could be an H2?

Author: Yeah my initial instinct when I did this section was to make this an H2, but it would require rewriting, but you've confirmed that was the right approach. I'll update and push the change separate from the other smaller changes you've suggested.

Reviewer: 👍

> _Widgets_ are visualizations that don't require a data source. These visualizations have far fewer options and don't need as much explanation. (For visualizations that require a data source, refer to [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure).) A widget topic includes the following elements:

Reviewer: why is "For visualizations..." in parentheses?

> _Widgets_ are visualizations that don't require a data source. These visualizations have far fewer options and don't need as much explanation. (For visualizations that require a data source, refer to [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure).) A widget topic includes the following elements:

Author: We don't have any yet, lol. When we do, I'll add those links in the example section. It's a commented out for now.

- **Topic title:** A widget topic title is the same as the name of the widget as it's written in the UI (for example, "Time series"). Don't add the word "panel", "visualization", or "widget" to the title.
- **Introduction:** Include an introduction that explains what the visualization type can help the user do.
- **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.
- **Body:** The body may include task/how-to information as needed. The body must include the following sections:

  - **[Section] options:** For each drop-down section of options in the edit panel, add a section in the topic with the name of the UI section, followed by the word "options." For example, if a drop-down section of options is called "Axis" in the UI, include a section in the topic called "Axis options".

### Visualization naming conventions

When writing about visualizations (or widgets), use:

- Noun form
- Lower case, unless at the beginning of a sentence

For example:

> ```

Reviewer 2: nit: You might want to use `markdown` as the code fence style to get syntax highlighting if the examples become more Markdown-y.

weight: 400
aliases:
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/structure/topic-types/visualization
keywords:
  - topic types
  - template
  - visualization
---

# Visualization topic

A _visualization_ topic provides an overview of a visualization type, its use cases, and the display options available in the user interface (UI). Visualization topics always include conceptual and reference content and may include task content.

The following types of content can be included in visualization topics:

- A high-level overview of a visualization's features, with use cases
- Descriptions of the UI options unique to that visualization (common options are documented separately)
- Screenshots that help users understand UI interactions or hard-to-describe UI
- As needed, guidance on how to use the visualization in special use cases
- Best practice guidelines

A visualization topic does not include:

- Tutorial content

Most visualizations require a data source; the ones that don't are called _widgets_. As a result, a widget requires less documentation than a typical visualization. The structures for both of these are explained in the following sections:

> [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure)
> [Widget topic structure](#widget-topic-structure)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure)
- [Widget topic structure](#widget-topic-structure)
```

A widget topic includes the following elements:

- **Topic title:** A widget topic title is the same as the name of the widget as it's written in the UI (for example, "Time series"). Don't add the word "panel", "visualization", or "widget" to the title.
- **Introduction:** Include an introduction that explains what the visualization type can help the user do.
- **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.
- **Body:** The body may include task/how-to information as needed. The body must include the following sections:

  - **[Section] options:** For each drop-down section of options in the edit panel, add a section in the topic with the name of the UI section, followed by the word "options." For example, if a drop-down section of options is called "Axis" in the UI, include a section in the topic called "Axis options".

## Visualization naming conventions

When writing about visualizations (or widgets), use:

- Noun form
- Lower case, unless at the beginning of a sentence

For example:

```markdown
Use bar charts to graph categorical data.
A bar chart lets you graph categorical data.
```

> If the name of a visualization is _already in plural form_, or _is highly confusing on its own_, use the adjective form. Do this by adding the word "visualization". For example:

Author: ```suggestion
There are some cases where you should use the adjective form of a visualization. You should do this if:

- The name of a visualization is already in plural form
- It's highly confusing on its own
- You're referencing a visualization outside of the visualization documentation

Do this by adding the word "visualization". For example:
```

- Screenshots that help users understand UI interactions or hard-to-describe UI
- As needed, guidance on how to use the visualization in special use cases
- Best practice guidelines

A visualization topic does not include:

- Tutorial content

Most visualizations require a data source; the ones that don't are called _widgets_. As a result, a widget requires less documentation than a typical visualization. The structures for both of these are explained in the following sections:

- [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure)
- [Widget topic structure](#widget-topic-structure)

## Visualization topic structure

The following applies to visualizations that require a data source. For visualizations that don't require one, refer to [Widget topic structure](#widget-topic-structure).

A visualization topic includes the following elements:

- **Topic title:** A visualization topic title is the same as the name of the visualization as it's written in the UI (for example, "Time series"). Don't add the word "panel" or "visualization" to the title.
- **Introduction:** Include an introduction that explains what the visualization type can help the user do.

> - **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.

Author: Gif maybe, but videos make me nervous for maintenance reasons. Images go out of date pretty quickly, and while it can be a big lift to update a bunch of screenshots if something in the UI changes, it's an enormous lift to update a bunch of videos. So I wouldn't recommend a video as the first visual aid that someone sees on the page.

> - **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Main visual:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case. A short video embed (5-10 seconds) is also acceptable. Don't use longer videos here.
```

  - **Other visualization options:** Include a section for links to the documentation for common UI options:

    - Panel options
    - Standard options
    - Thresholds
    - Legend
    - Data links
    - Field overrides
    - Value mappings

![Visualization structure](/media/docs/writers-toolkit/visualization-topic-example-ann-2.png)

## Widget topic structure

_Widgets_ are visualizations that don't require a data source. These visualizations have far fewer options and don't need as much explanation. For visualizations that require a data source, refer to [Visualization topic structure](#visualization-topic-structure).

A widget topic includes the following elements:

- **Topic title:** A widget topic title is the same as the name of the widget as it's written in the UI (for example, "Time series"). Don't add the word "panel", "visualization", or "widget" to the title.
- **Introduction:** Include an introduction that explains what the visualization type can help the user do.

> - **Main image:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Main visual:** Add a clear screenshot depicting the visualization displaying a typical use case. A short video embed (5-10 seconds) is also acceptable. Don't use longer videos here.
```
